.TH LYRFIN 1 "2026" "lyrfin 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lyrfin \- a modern, futuristic terminal music player (TUI)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lyrfin
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPATH\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lyrfin
is a keyboard-first terminal music player with a modern, GPU-free interface:
seven switchable layouts, a library browser, fuzzy search, gapless playback, an
FFT visualizer, synced lyrics, inline album art, a tag editor, Spotify, internet
radio, podcasts, themes and configurable keybindings.
.PP
PATH arguments are files or directories added to the library for the session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-theme " " \fINAME\fR
Override the theme (aurora, cyberpunk, glacier, monolith, highcontrast, or a custom theme).
.TP
.B \-\-snapshot
Render every layout headlessly (no TTY) and exit. Useful for testing.
.TP
.BR \-\-size " " \fIWxH\fR
Terminal size for \fB\-\-snapshot\fR (default 120x40).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B space
play / pause
.TP
.B n / p
next / previous
.TP
.B j / k
move down / up
.TP
.B h / l
focus left / right (sidebar, list, panes; columns in Library)
.TP
.B , / .
seek back / forward (Lyrics view: nudge sync)
.TP
.B 1..7
switch layout
.TP
.B /
search
.TP
.B f
favorite, \fB) (\fR rate
.TP
.B t
cycle theme, \fBL\fR lyrics, \fBv\fR visualizer mode
.TP
.B ?
help, \fBq\fR quit
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/lyrfin/config.toml
Main configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.config/lyrfin/keybindings.toml
Key bindings.
.TP
.I ~/.config/lyrfin/themes/*.toml
Custom themes.
.SH TERMINAL SUPPORT
lyrfin is currently developed and tested on the
.B Ghostty
terminal. It should work on any modern terminal, but other terminals are not yet
officially verified; broader terminal support is planned. Inline album art
requires a terminal with an image protocol (Kitty, sixel, or iTerm2) and falls
back to half-blocks elsewhere.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation at
.I https://github.com/dilmun/lyrfin
.SH AUTHOR
dilmun
